Docs: Improve agentic setup docs (#34648)
storybookjs/storybook: docs/ai/setup.mdx

<If renderer={['react']}>

> Configuring Storybook in an existing application is repetitive, project-specific work that AI agents handle well. The [`storybook ai setup`](../api/cli-options.mdx#ai) command analyzes your project (framework, renderer, builder, language, addons) and produces a Markdown guide with [step-by-step instructions](#generated-setup-instructions) tailored to your needs, from configuring your preview file to writing and verifying stories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring Storybook in an existing application is repetitive, project-specific work that AI agents handle well. The [`storybook ai setup`](../api/cli-options.mdx#ai) command analyzes your project (framework, renderer, builder, language, addons) and produces a Markdown guide with [step-by-step instructions](#generated-setup-instructions). By following this guide, your agent will configure your preview file, set up commonly needed mocks and write stories for components in your codebase.
```

I don't like "tailored to your needs" because it implies we've understood what the user needs. Instead, if we tell them what we actually intend to do, they can decide for themselves if that's what they need; and if it isn't, they can jump to "customise the prompt" in more confidence.

After an agent follows those instructions, you have a working Storybook with stories for your components and a clear path to expanding coverage across your codebase.

## Set up Storybook with an agent

To set up Storybook in your project using an agent, run this prompt:

<CodeSnippets path="prompt-install-storybook.md" />

> The agent first runs [`storybook init`](../api/cli-options.mdx#init) to add Storybook to your project. When that completes, it prompts you to run `storybook ai setup` for a more complete configuration tailored to your project. If you agree, the agent generates the instructions, follows them step by step, and applies each change directly to your codebase so you can review its work as it goes.

Reviewer: We will need @yannbf confirmation / final word on this one.

I believe we're more confident with a two-step process where we tell the agent to init, and once it's done, we tell it to run `ai setup` and follow the instructions precisely.

This is because if init goes poorly, we've seen many models forget to run the `ai setup` stuff. We aren't yet able to evaluate how to influence full compliance in a single prompt starting from init (too costly to do), so we have to proceed with caution.

2. **Configure the [preview](../configure/story-rendering.mdx):** set up [decorators](../writing-stories/decorators.mdx), [global styles](../configure/styling-and-css.mdx), and any framework-level providers in `preview.tsx`.
3. **Support portals:** ensure portal roots exist in the Storybook preview DOM.
4. **Mock side effects:** intercept [network requests](../writing-stories/mocking-data-and-modules/mocking-network-requests.mdx) (via MSW), storage, timers, and navigation at the preview level rather than per-story.
5. **Write [stories](../writing-stories/index.mdx):** add stories from up to 10 components, from simple to complex, [tagging](../writing-stories/tags.mdx) them as `ai-generated` for your review.
6. **Add [play functions](../writing-stories/play-function.mdx):** implement [interaction tests](../writing-tests/interaction-testing.mdx) for the most important flows.
7. **Cover additional patterns:** expand coverage across the components the agent has already touched.
8. **Verify:** run [Vitest](../writing-tests/integrations/vitest-addon/index.mdx) against every new story to confirm it renders, and run the type checker.

> 9. **Install useful addons:** add and configure addons like [MCP](./mcp/overview.mdx) to help you (and your agent) get the most out of Storybook.

Reviewer: Flagging this as the most likely content to expire. Yann and I should provide alt copy based on the prompt we end up shipping by default.

Reviewer 2: This is fine even with the prompt we modified!

## Next steps

Once the agent has completed the setup:

- Connect the [Storybook MCP server](./mcp/overview.mdx) to your agent so it can continue reading manifests, generating stories, and running tests against your live Storybook.

> - Review the stories tagged `ai-generated`, and remove the tag once you've validated each one.

Reviewer: I'd reverse the order here.

There are immediate concerns: go try Storybook out, check what the agent did.

And then follow-up actions: use Storybook for testing, doc, dev, and btw use the MCP to make everything better since we know you're a AI user.

Technically the MCP is one of several follow-ups, but mostly, it isn't an immediate action to take to learn Storybook or to verify the agentic setup went well.

- Follow the [best practices](./best-practices.mdx) to make your stories and documentation maximally useful to both humans and agents.

## Advanced usage

> ### Customizing setup instructions

Reviewer: This section is about customising but in the ordered list, we don't tell users when to customise. Maybe explicitly say between 1 and 2 that users can adjust the prompt to include constraints specific to their project or request stories for specific components?

> 3. Let the agent work through the steps. You can review each change as the agent applies it.

Reviewer: This is not quite true. Agents kinda go and do every change with very limited interruption. I'd remove the "You can review" sentence to avoid setting false expectations.
